<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head>
  <title>Democracy in America</title>
  <link href="styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
  <section class="chapter">
    <h1>Chapter II.</h1>
    <h2 class="small-caps" id="toc_1">Origin Of The Anglo-Americans, And Its Importance In Relation To Their Future Condition.</h2>
    <section class="rubric">
		<p class="hanging-indent">Utility of knowing the origin of nations in order to understand their social condition and their laws.—America the only country in which the starting-point of a great people has been clearly observable.—In what respects all who emigrated to British America were similar.—In what they differed.—Remark applicable to all Europeans who established themselves on the shores of the New World.—Colonization of Virginia.—Colonization of New England.—Original character of the first inhabitants of New England.—Their arrival.—Their first laws.—Their social contract.—Penal code borrowed from the Hebrew legislation.—Religious fervor.—Republican spirit.—Intimate union of the spirit of religion with the spirit of liberty.</p>
	</section>
	<p class="no-indent"><span class="small-caps">After</span> the birth of a human being his early years are obscurely spent in the toils or pleasures of childhood. As he grows up the world receives him, when his manhood begins, and he enters into contact with his fellows. He is then studied for the first time, and it is imagined that the germ of the vices and the virtues of his maturer years is then formed. This, if I am not mistaken, is a great error. We must begin higher up; we must watch the infant in its mother’s arms; we must see the first images which the external world casts upon the dark mirror of his mind; the first occurrences which he witnesses; we must hear the first words which awaken the sleeping powers of thought, and stand by his earliest efforts, if we would understand the prejudices, the habits, and the passions which will rule his life. The entire man is, so to speak, to be seen in the cradle of the child.</p>
  <p>The growth of nations presents something analogous to this: they all bear some marks of their origin; and the circumstances which accompanied their birth and contributed to their rise affect the whole term of their being. If we were able to go back to the elements of states, and to examine the oldest monuments of their history, I doubt not that we should discover the primal cause of the prejudices, the habits, the ruling passions, and, in short, of all that constitutes what is called the national character; we should then find the explanation of certain customs which now seem at variance with the prevailing manners; of such laws as conflict with established principles; and of such incoherent opinions as are here and there to be met with in society, like those fragments of broken chains which we sometimes see hanging from the vault of an edifice, and supporting nothing. This might explain the destinies of certain nations, which seem borne on by an unknown force to ends of which they themselves are ignorant. But hitherto facts have been wanting to researches of this kind: the spirit of inquiry has only come upon communities in their latter days; and when they at length contemplated their origin, time had already obscured it, or ignorance and pride adorned it with truth-concealing fables.</p>
  <p>America is the only country in which it has been possible to witness the natural and tranquil growth of society, and where the influences exercised on the future condition of states by their origin is clearly distinguishable. At the period when the peoples of Europe landed in the New World their national characteristics were already completely formed; each of them had a physiognomy of its own; and as they had already attained that stage of civilization at which men are led to study themselves, they have transmitted to us a faithful picture of their opinions, their manners, and their laws. The men of the sixteenth century are almost as well known to us as our contemporaries. America, consequently, exhibits in the broad light of day the phenomena which the ignorance or rudeness of earlier ages conceals from our researches. Near enough to the time when the states of America were founded, to be accurately acquainted with their elements, and sufficiently removed from that period to judge of some of their results, the men of our own day seem destined to see further than their predecessors into the series of human events. Providence has given us a torch which our forefathers did not possess, and has allowed us to discern fundamental causes in the history of the world which the obscurity of the past concealed from them. If we carefully examine the social and political state of America, after having studied its history, we shall remain perfectly convinced that not an opinion, not a custom, not a law, I may even say not an event, is upon record which the origin of that people will not explain. The readers of this book will find the germ of all that is to follow in the present chapter, and the key to almost the whole work.</p>
  <p>The emigrants who came, at different periods to occupy the territory now covered by the American Union differed from each other in many respects; their aim was not the same, and they governed themselves on different principles. These men had, however, certain features in common, and they were all placed in an analogous situation. The tie of language is perhaps the strongest and the most durable that can unite mankind. All the emigrants spoke the same tongue; they were all offsets from the same people. Born in a country which had been agitated for centuries by the struggles of faction, and in which all parties had been obliged in their turn to place themselves under the protection of the laws, their political education had been perfected in this rude school, and they were more conversant with the notions of right and the principles of true freedom than the greater part of their European contemporaries. At the period of their first emigrations the parish system, that fruitful germ of free institutions, was deeply rooted in the habits of the English; and with it the doctrine of the sovereignty of the people had been introduced into the bosom of the monarchy of the House of Tudor.</p>
  <p>The religious quarrels which have agitated the Christian world were then rife. England had plunged into the new order of things with headlong vehemence. The character of its inhabitants, which had always been sedate and reflective, became argumentative and austere. General information had been increased by intellectual debate, and the mind had received a deeper cultivation. Whilst religion was the topic of discussion, the morals of the people were reformed. All these national features are more or less discoverable in the physiognomy of those adventurers who came to seek a new home on the opposite shores of the Atlantic.</p>
  <p>Another remark, to which we shall hereafter have occasion to recur, is applicable not only to the English, but to the French, the Spaniards, and all the Europeans who successively established themselves in the New World. All these European colonies contained the elements, if not the development, of a complete democracy. Two causes led to this result. It may safely be advanced, that on leaving the mother-country the emigrants had in general no notion of superiority over one another. The happy and the powerful do not go into exile, and there are no surer guarantees of equality among men than poverty and misfortune. It happened, however, on several occasions, that persons of rank were driven to America by political and religious quarrels. Laws were made to establish a gradation of ranks; but it was soon found that the soil of America was opposed to a territorial aristocracy. To bring that refractory land into cultivation, the constant and interested exertions of the owner himself were necessary; and when the ground was prepared, its produce was found to be insufficient to enrich a master and a farmer at the same time. The land was then naturally broken up into small portions, which the proprietor cultivated for himself. Land is the basis of an aristocracy, which clings to the soil that supports it; for it is not by privileges alone, nor by birth, but by landed property handed down from generation to generation, that an aristocracy is constituted. A nation may present immense fortunes and extreme wretchedness, but unless those fortunes are territorial there is no aristocracy, but simply the class of the rich and that of the poor.</p>
  <p>All the British colonies had then a great degree of similarity at the epoch of their settlement. All of them, from their first beginning, seemed destined to witness the growth, not of the aristocratic liberty of their mother-country, but of that freedom of the middle and lower orders of which the history of the world had as yet furnished no complete example.</p>
  <p>In this general uniformity several striking differences were however discernible, which it is necessary to point out. Two branches may be distinguished in the Anglo-American family, which have hitherto grown up without entirely commingling; the one in the South, the other in the North.</p>
  <p>Virginia received the first English colony; the emigrants took possession of it in 1607. The idea that mines of gold and silver are the sources of national wealth was at that time singularly prevalent in Europe; a fatal delusion, which has done more to impoverish the nations which adopted it, and has cost more lives in America, than the united influence of war and bad laws. The men sent to Virginia were <a role="doc-noteref" href="#note-1" id="ref-1">seekers of gold</a>, adventurers, without resources and without character, whose turbulent and restless spirit endangered the <a role="doc-noteref" href="#note-2" id="ref-2">infant colony</a>, and rendered its progress uncertain. The artisans and agriculturists arrived afterwards; and, although they were a more moral and orderly race of men, they were in nowise above the level of the <a role="doc-noteref" href="#note-3" id="ref-3">inferior classes in England</a>. No lofty conceptions, no intellectual system, directed the foundation of these new settlements. The colony was scarcely established when <a role="doc-noteref" href="#note-4" id="ref-4">slavery was introduced</a>, and this was the main circumstance which has exercised so prodigious an influence on the character, the laws, and all the future prospects of the South. Slavery, as we shall afterwards show, dishonors labor; it introduces idleness into society, and with idleness, ignorance and pride, luxury and distress. It enervates the powers of the mind, and benumbs the activity of man. The influence of slavery, united to the English character, explains the manners and the social condition of the Southern States.</p>
  <p>In the North, the same English foundation was modified by the most opposite shades of character; and here I may be allowed to enter into some details. The two or three main ideas which constitute the basis of the social theory of the United States were first combined in the Northern English colonies, more generally denominated the States of <a role="doc-noteref" href="#note-5" id="ref-5">New England</a>. The principles of New England spread at first to the neighboring states; they then passed successively to the more distant ones; and at length they imbued the whole Confederation. They now extend their influence beyond its limits over the whole American world. The civilization of New England has been like a beacon lit upon a hill, which, after it has diffused its warmth around, tinges the distant horizon with its glow.</p>
  <p>The foundation of New England was a novel spectacle, and all the circumstances attending it were singular and original. The large majority of colonies have been first inhabited either by men without education and without resources, driven by their poverty and their misconduct from the land which gave them birth, or by speculators and adventurers greedy of gain. Some settlements cannot even boast so honorable an origin; St. Domingo was founded by buccaneers; and the criminal courts of England originally supplied the population of Australia.</p>
  <p>The settlers who established themselves on the shores of New England all belonged to the more independent classes of their native country. Their union on the soil of America at once presented the singular phenomenon of a society containing neither lords nor common people, neither rich nor poor. These men possessed, in proportion to their number, a greater mass of intelligence than is to be found in any European nation of our own time. All, without a single exception, had received a good education, and many of them were known in Europe for their talents and their acquirements. The other colonies had been founded by adventurers without family; the emigrants of New England brought with them the best elements of order and morality—they landed in the desert accompanied by their wives and children. But what most especially distinguished them was the aim of their undertaking. They had not been obliged by necessity to leave their country; the social position they abandoned was one to be regretted, and their means of subsistence were certain. Nor did they cross the Atlantic to improve their situation or to increase their wealth; the call which summoned them from the comforts of their homes was purely intellectual; and in facing the inevitable sufferings of exile their object was the triumph of an idea.</p>
  <p>The emigrants, or, as they deservedly styled themselves, the Pilgrims, belonged to that English sect the austerity of whose principles had acquired for them the name of Puritans. Puritanism was not merely a religious doctrine, but it corresponded in many points with the most absolute democratic and republican theories. It was this tendency which had aroused its most dangerous adversaries. Persecuted by the Government of the mother-country, and disgusted by the habits of a society opposed to the rigor of their own principles, the Puritans went forth to seek some rude and unfrequented part of the world, where they could live according to their own opinions, and worship God in freedom.</p>
  <p>A few quotations will throw more light upon the spirit of these pious adventures than all we can say of them. <a role="doc-noteref" href="#note-6" id="ref-6">Nathaniel Morton</a>, the historian of the first years of the settlement, thus opens his subject:</p>
  <p>“Gentle Reader,</p>
  <p>“I have for some length of time looked upon it as a duty incumbent, especially on the immediate successors of those that have had so large experience of those many memorable and signal demonstrations of God’s goodness, viz., the first beginners of this Plantation in New England, to commit to writing his gracious dispensations on that behalf; having so many inducements thereunto, not onely otherwise but so plentifully in the Sacred Scriptures: that so, what we have seen, and what our fathers have told us (Psalm lxxviii. 3, 4), we may not hide from our children, showing to the generations to come the praises of the Lord; that especially the seed of Abraham his servant, and the children of Jacob his chosen (Psalm cv. 5, 6), may remember his marvellous works in the beginning and progress of the planting of New England, his wonders and the judgments of his mouth; how that God brought a vine into this wilderness; that he cast out the heathen, and planted it; that he made room for it and caused it to take deep root; and it filled the land (Psalm lxxx. 8, 9). And not onely so, but also that he hath guided his people by his strength to his holy habitation and planted them in the mountain of his inheritance in respect of precious Gospel enjoyments: and that as especially God may have the glory of all unto whom it is most due; so also some rays of glory may reach the names of those blessed Saints that were the main instruments and the beginning of this happy enterprise.”</p>
  <p>It is impossible to read this opening paragraph without an involuntary feeling of religious awe; it breathes the very savor of Gospel antiquity. The sincerity of the author heightens his power of language. The band which to his eyes was a mere party of adventurers gone forth to seek their fortune beyond seas appears to the reader as the germ of a great nation wafted by Providence to a predestined shore.</p>
  <p>The author thus continues his narrative of the departure of the first pilgrims.</p>
  <p>“So they left that goodly and pleasant <a role="doc-noteref" href="#note-7" id="ref-7">city of Leyden</a>, which had been their resting-place for above eleven years; but they knew that they were pilgrims and strangers here below, and looked not much on these things, but lifted up their eyes to Heaven, their dearest country, where God hath prepared for them a city (Heb. xi. 16), and therein quieted their spirits. When they came to Delfs-Haven they found the ship and all things ready; and such of their friends as could not come with them followed after them, and sundry came from Amsterdam to see them shipt, and to take their leaves of them. One night was spent with little sleep with the most, but with friendly entertainment and Christian discourse, and other real expressions of true Christian love. The next day they went on board, and their friends with them, where truly doleful was the sight of that sad and mournful parting, to hear what sighs and sobs and prayers did sound amongst them; what tears did gush from every eye, and pithy speeches pierced each other’s heart, that sundry of the Dutch strangers that stood on the Key as spectators could not refrain from tears. But the tide (which stays for no man) calling them away, that were thus loth to depart, their Reverend Pastor falling down on his knees, and they all with him, with watery cheeks commended them with most fervent prayers unto the Lord and his blessing; and then, with mutual embraces and many tears they took their leaves one of another, which proved to be the last leave to many of them.”</p>
  <p>The emigrants were about 150 in number, including the women and the children. Their object was to plant a colony on the shores of the Hudson; but after having been driven about for some time in the Atlantic Ocean, they were forced to land on that arid coast of New England which is now the site of the town of Plymouth. The <a role="doc-noteref" href="#note-8" id="ref-8">rock</a> is still shown on which the pilgrims disembarked.</p>
  <p>“But before we pass on,” continues our historian, “let the reader with me make a pause and seriously consider this poor people’s present condition, the more to be raised up to admiration of God’s goodness towards them in their preservation: for being now passed the vast ocean, and a sea of troubles before them in expectation, they had now no friends to welcome them, no inns to entertain or refresh them, no houses, or much less towns to repair unto to seek for succour: and for the season it was winter, and they that know the winters of the country know them to be sharp and violent, subject to cruel and fierce storms, dangerous to travel to known places, much more to search unknown coasts. Besides, what could they see but a hideous and desolate wilderness, full of wilde beasts, and wilde men? and what multitudes of them there were, they then knew not: for which way soever they turned their eyes (save upward to Heaven) they could have but little solace or content in respect of any outward object; for summer being ended, all things stand in appearance with a weather-beaten face, and the whole country full of woods and thickets, represented a wild and savage hew; if they looked behind them, there was the mighty ocean which they had passed, and was now as a main bar or gulph to separate them from all the civil parts of the world.”</p>
  <p>It must not be imagined that the piety of the Puritans was of a merely speculative kind, or that it took no cognizance of the course of worldly affairs. Puritanism, as I have already remarked, was scarcely less a political than a religious doctrine. No sooner had the emigrants landed on the barren coast described by Nathaniel Morton than it was their first care to constitute a society, by passing the following Act:</p>
  <p><span class="small-caps">“In the name of God. Amen.</span> We, whose names are underwritten, the loyal subjects of our dread Sovereign Lord King James, &amp;c., &amp;c., Having undertaken for the glory of God, and advancement of the Christian Faith, and the honour of our King and country, a voyage to plant the first colony in the northern parts of Virginia; Do by these presents solemnly and mutually, in the presence of God and one another, covenant and combine ourselves together into a civil body politick, for our better ordering and preservation, and furtherance of the ends aforesaid: and by virtue hereof do enact, constitute and frame such just and equal laws, ordinances, acts, constitutions, and officers, from time to time, as shall be thought most meet and convenient for the general good of the Colony: unto which we promise all due submission and obedience,” <a role="doc-noteref" href="#note-9" id="ref-9">&amp;c.</a></p>
  <p>This happened in 1620, and from that time forwards the emigration went on. The religious and political passions which ravaged the British Empire during the whole reign of Charles I drove fresh crowds of sectarians every year to the shores of America. In England the stronghold of Puritanism was in the middle classes, and it was from the middle classes that the majority of the emigrants came. The population of New England increased rapidly; and whilst the hierarchy of rank despotically classed the inhabitants of the mother-country, the colony continued to present the novel spectacle of a community homogeneous in all its parts. A democracy, more perfect than any which antiquity had dreamt of, started in full size and panoply from the midst of an ancient feudal society.</p>
  <p>The English Government was not dissatisfied with an emigration which removed the elements of fresh discord and of further revolutions. On the contrary, everything was done to encourage it, and great exertions were made to mitigate the hardships of those who sought a shelter from the rigor of their country’s laws on the soil of America. It seemed as if New England was a region given up to the dreams of fancy and the unrestrained experiments of innovators.</p>
  <p>The English colonies (and this is one of the main causes of their prosperity) have always enjoyed more internal freedom and more political independence than the colonies of other nations; but this principle of liberty was nowhere more extensively applied than in the States of New England.</p>
  <p>It was generally allowed at that period that the territories of the New World belonged to that European nation which had been the first to discover them. Nearly the whole coast of North America thus became a British possession towards the end of the sixteenth century. The means used by the English Government to people these new domains were of several kinds; the King sometimes appointed a governor of his own choice, who ruled a portion of the New World in the name and under the immediate orders of <a role="doc-noteref" href="#note-10" id="ref-10">the Crown</a>; this is the colonial system adopted by other countries of Europe. Sometimes grants of certain tracts were made by the Crown to an <a role="doc-noteref" href="#note-11" id="ref-11">individual or to a company</a>, in which case all the civil and political power fell into the hands of one or more persons, who, under the inspection and control of the Crown, sold the lands and governed the inhabitants. Lastly, a third system consisted in allowing a certain number of emigrants to constitute a political society under the protection of the mother-country, and to govern themselves in whatever was not contrary to her laws. This mode of colonization, so remarkably favorable to liberty, was only adopted in <a role="doc-noteref" href="#note-12" id="ref-12">New England</a>.</p>
   <p>In <a role="doc-noteref" href="#note-13" id="ref-13">1628</a> a charter of this kind was granted by Charles I to the emigrants who went to form the colony of Massachusetts. But, in general, charters were not given to the colonies of New England till they had acquired a certain existence. Plymouth, Providence, New Haven, the State of Connecticut, and that of <a role="doc-noteref" href="#note-14" id="ref-14">Rhode Island</a> were founded without the co-operation and almost without the knowledge of the mother-country. The new settlers did not derive their incorporation from the seat of the empire, although they did not deny its supremacy; they constituted a society of their own accord, and it was not till thirty or forty years afterwards, under Charles II., that their existence was legally recognized by a royal charter.</p>
   <p>This frequently renders its it difficult to detect the link which connected the emigrants with the land of their forefathers in studying the earliest historical and legislative records of New England. They exercised the rights of sovereignty; they named their magistrates, concluded peace or declared war, made police regulations, and enacted laws as if their <a role="doc-noteref" href="#note-15" id="ref-15">allegiance was due only to God</a>. Nothing can be more curious and, at the same time more instructive, than the legislation of that period; it is there that the solution of the great social problem which the United States now present to the world is to be found.</p>
   <p>Amongst these documents we shall notice, as especially characteristic, the code of laws promulgated by the little State of Connecticut in <a role="doc-noteref" href="#note-16" id="ref-16">1650</a>.</p>
   <p>The <a role="doc-noteref" href="#note-17" id="ref-17">legislators of Connecticut</a> begin with the penal laws, and, strange to say, they borrow their provisions from the text of Holy Writ.</p>
   <p>“Whosoever shall worship any other God than the Lord,” says the preamble of the Code, “shall surely be put to death.” This is followed by ten or twelve enactments of the same kind, copied verbatim from the books of Exodus, Leviticus, and Deuteronomy. Blasphemy, sorcery, <a role="doc-noteref" href="#note-18" id="ref-18">adultery</a>, and rape were punished with death; an outrage offered by a son to his parents was to be expiated by the same penalty. The legislation of a rude and half-civilized people was thus applied to an enlightened and moral community. The consequence was that the punishment of death was never more frequently prescribed by the statute, and never more rarely enforced towards the guilty.</p>
   <p>The chief care of the legislators, in this body of penal laws, was the maintenance of orderly conduct and good morals in the community: they constantly invaded the domain of conscience, and there was scarcely a sin which was not subject to magisterial censure. The reader is aware of the rigor with which these laws punished rape and adultery; intercourse between unmarried persons was likewise severely repressed. The judge was <a role="doc-noteref" href="#note-19" id="ref-19">empowered to inflict</a> a pecuniary penalty, a whipping, or marriage *s on the misdemeanants; and if the records of the old courts of New Haven may be believed, prosecutions of this kind were not unfrequent. We find a sentence bearing date the first of May, 1660, inflicting a fine and reprimand on a young woman who was accused of using improper language, and of <a role="doc-noteref" href="#note-20" id="ref-20">allowing herself to be kissed</a>. The Code of 1650 abounds in preventive measures. It punishes idleness and drunkenness with <a role="doc-noteref" href="#note-21" id="ref-21">severity</a>. Innkeepers are forbidden to furnish more than a certain quantity of liquor to each consumer; and simple lying, whenever it may be <a role="doc-noteref" href="#note-22" id="ref-22">injurious</a>,  is checked by a fine or a flogging. In other places, the legislator, entirely forgetting the great principles of religious toleration which he had himself upheld in Europe, renders attendance on divine service <a role="doc-noteref" href="#note-23" id="ref-23">compulsory</a>, and goes so far as to visit with <a role="doc-noteref" href="#note-24" id="ref-24">severe punishment</a>, and even with death, the Christians who chose to worship God according to a <a role="doc-noteref" href="#note-25" id="ref-25">ritual differing from his own</a>. Sometimes indeed the zeal of his enactments induces him to descend to the most frivolous particulars: thus a law is to be found in the same Code which <a role="doc-noteref" href="#note-26" id="ref-26">prohibits</a> the use of tobacco. It must not be forgotten that these fantastical and vexatious laws were not imposed by authority, but that they were freely voted by all the persons interested, and that the manners of the community were even more austere and more puritanical than the laws. In 1649 a solemn association was formed in Boston to <a role="doc-noteref" href="#note-27" id="ref-27">check the worldly luxury of long hair</a>.</p>
   <p>These errors are no doubt discreditable to human reason; they attest the inferiority of our nature, which is incapable of laying firm hold upon what is true and just, and is often reduced to the alternative of two excesses. In strict connection with this penal legislation, which bears such striking marks of a narrow sectarian spirit, and of those religious passions which had been warmed by persecution and were still fermenting among the people, a body of political laws is to be found, which, though written two hundred years ago, is still ahead of the liberties of our age. The general principles which are the groundwork of modern constitutions—principles which were imperfectly known in Europe, and not completely triumphant even in Great Britain, in the seventeenth century—were all recognized and determined by the laws of New England: the intervention of the people in public affairs, the free voting of taxes, the responsibility of authorities, personal liberty, and trial by jury, were all positively established without discussion. From these fruitful principles consequences have been derived and applications have been made such as no nation in Europe has yet ventured to attempt.</p>
   <p>In Connecticut the electoral body consisted, from its origin, of the <a role="doc-noteref" href="#note-28" id="ref-28">whole number of citizens</a>; and this is readily to be understood, when we recollect that this people enjoyed an almost perfect equality of fortune, and a still greater <a role="doc-noteref" href="#note-29" id="ref-29">uniformity of opinions</a>. In Connecticut, at this period, all the executive functionaries were elected, including the <a role="doc-noteref" href="#note-30" id="ref-30">Governor of the State</a>. The citizens above the age of sixteen were obliged to bear arms; they formed a national militia, which appointed its own officers, and was to hold itself at all times in readiness to march for the <a role="doc-noteref" href="#note-31" id="ref-31">defence of the country</a>.</p>
   <p>In the laws of Connecticut, as well as in all those of New England, we find the germ and gradual development of that township independence which is the life and mainspring of American liberty at the present day. The political existence of the majority of the nations of Europe commenced in the superior ranks of society, and was gradually and imperfectly communicated to the different members of the social body. In America, on the other hand, it may be said that the township was organized before the county, the county before the State, the State before the Union. In New England townships were completely and definitively constituted as early as 1650. The independence of the township was the nucleus round which the local interests, passions, rights, and duties collected and clung. It gave scope to the activity of a real political life most thoroughly democratic and republican. The colonies still recognized the supremacy of the mother-country; monarchy was still the law of the State; but the republic was already established in every township. The towns named their own magistrates of every kind, rated themselves, and levied their own taxes. *e In the parish of New England the law of representation was not adopted, but the affairs of the community were discussed, as at Athens, in the market-place, by a <a role="doc-noteref" href="#note-32" id="ref-32">general assembly</a> of the citizens.</p>
   <p>In studying the laws which were promulgated at this first era of the American republics, it is impossible not to be struck by the remarkable acquaintance with the science of government and the advanced theory of legislation which they display. The ideas there formed of the duties of society towards its members are evidently much loftier and more comprehensive than those of the European legislators at that time: obligations were there imposed which were elsewhere slighted. In the States of New England, from the first, the condition of the poor was <a role="doc-noteref" href="#note-33" id="ref-33">provided for</a>; strict measures were taken for the maintenance of roads, and surveyors were <a role="doc-noteref" href="#note-34" id="ref-34">appointed</a> to attend to them; registers were established in every parish, in which the results of public deliberations, and the births, deaths, and marriages of the citizens were <a role="doc-noteref" href="#note-35" id="ref-35">entered</a>; clerks were directed to keep these <a role="doc-noteref" href="#note-36" id="ref-36">registers</a>; officers were charged with the administration of vacant inheritances, and with the arbitration of litigated landmarks; and many others were created whose chief functions were the <a role="doc-noteref" href="#note-37" id="ref-37">maintenance of public order</a> in the community. The law enters into a thousand useful provisions for a number of social wants which are at present very inadequately felt in France.</p>
   <p>But it is by the attention it pays to Public Education that the original character of American civilization is at once placed in the clearest light. “It being,” says the <a role="doc-noteref" href="#note-38" id="ref-38">law</a>, “one chief project of Satan to keep men from the knowledge of the Scripture by persuading from the use of tongues, to the end that learning may not be buried in the graves of our forefathers, in church and commonwealth, the Lord assisting our endeavors. . . .” Here follow clauses establishing schools in every township, and obliging the inhabitants, under pain of heavy fines, to support them. Schools of a superior kind were founded in the same manner in the more populous districts. The municipal authorities were bound to enforce the sending of children to school by their parents; they were empowered to inflict fines upon all who refused compliance; and in case of continued resistance society assumed the place of the parent, took possession of the child, and deprived the father of those natural rights which he used to so bad a purpose. The reader will undoubtedly have remarked the preamble of these enactments: in America religion is the road to knowledge, and the observance of the divine laws leads man to civil freedom.</p>
   <p>If, after having cast a rapid glance over the state of American society in 1650, we turn to the condition of Europe, and more especially to that of the Continent, at the same period, we cannot fail to be struck with astonishment. On the Continent of Europe, at the beginning of the seventeenth century, absolute monarchy had everywhere triumphed over the ruins of the oligarchical and feudal liberties of the Middle Ages. Never were the notions of right more completely confounded than in the midst of the splendor and literature of Europe; never was there less political activity among the people; never were the principles of true freedom less widely circulated; and at that very time those principles, which were scorned or unknown by the nations of Europe, were proclaimed in the deserts of the New World, and were accepted as the future creed of a great people. The boldest theories of the human reason were put into practice by a community so humble that not a statesman condescended to attend to it; and a legislation without a precedent was produced offhand by the imagination of the citizens. In the bosom of this obscure democracy, which had as yet brought forth neither generals, nor philosophers, nor authors, a man might stand up in the face of a free people and pronounce the following fine definition of <a role="doc-noteref" href="#note-39" id="ref-39">liberty</a>.</p>
   <p>“Nor would I have you to mistake in the point of your own liberty. There is a liberty of a corrupt nature which is effected both by men and beasts to do what they list, and this liberty is inconsistent with authority, impatient of all restraint; by this liberty ‘<em>sumus omnes deteriores</em>’: ’tis the grand enemy of truth and peace, and all the ordinances of God are bent against it. But there is a civil, a moral, a federal liberty which is the proper end and object of authority; it is a liberty for that only which is just and good: for this liberty you are to stand with the hazard of your very lives and whatsoever crosses it is not authority, but a distemper thereof. This liberty is maintained in a way of subjection to authority; and the authority set over you will, in all administrations for your good, be quietly submitted unto by all but such as have a disposition to shake off the yoke and lose their true liberty, by their murmuring at the honor and power of authority.”</p>
   <p>The remarks I have made will suffice to display the character of Anglo-American civilization in its true light. It is the result (and this should be constantly present to the mind of two distinct elements), which in other places have been in frequent hostility, but which in America have been admirably incorporated and combined with one another. I allude to the spirit of Religion and the spirit of Liberty.</p>
   <p>The settlers of New England were at the same time ardent sectarians and daring innovators. Narrow as the limits of some of their religious opinions were, they were entirely free from political prejudices. Hence arose two tendencies, distinct but not opposite, which are constantly discernible in the manners as well as in the laws of the country.</p>
   <p>It might be imagined that men who sacrificed their friends, their family, and their native land to a religious conviction were absorbed in the pursuit of the intellectual advantages which they purchased at so dear a rate. The energy, however, with which they strove for the acquirement of wealth, moral enjoyment, and the comforts as well as liberties of the world, is scarcely inferior to that with which they devoted themselves to Heaven.</p>
   <p>Political principles and all human laws and institutions were moulded and altered at their pleasure; the barriers of the society in which they were born were broken down before them; the old principles which had governed the world for ages were no more; a path without a turn and a field without an horizon were opened to the exploring and ardent curiosity of man: but at the limits of the political world he checks his researches, he discreetly lays aside the use of his most formidable faculties, he no longer consents to doubt or to innovate, but carefully abstaining from raising the curtain of the sanctuary, he yields with submissive respect to truths which he will not discuss. Thus, in the moral world everything is classed, adapted, decided, and foreseen; in the political world everything is agitated, uncertain, and disputed: in the one is a passive, though a voluntary, obedience; in the other an independence scornful of experience and jealous of authority.</p>
   <p>These two tendencies, apparently so discrepant, are far from conflicting; they advance together, and mutually support each other. Religion perceives that civil liberty affords a noble exercise to the faculties of man, and that the political world is a field prepared by the Creator for the efforts of the intelligence. Contented with the freedom and the power which it enjoys in its own sphere, and with the place which it occupies, the empire of religion is never more surely established than when it reigns in the hearts of men unsupported by aught beside its native strength. Religion is no less the companion of liberty in all its battles and its triumphs; the cradle of its infancy, and the divine source of its claims. The safeguard of morality is religion, and morality is the best security of law and the surest pledge of <a role="doc-noteref" href="#note-40" id="ref-40">freedom</a>.</p>
   <hr/>
 </section>
 <section>
  <h2 id="toc_2">Reasons of Certain Anomalies Which the Laws and Customs of the Angl-Americans Present.</h2>
  <section class="rubric">
    <p class="hanging-indent">Remains of aristocratic institutions in the midst of a complete democracy.—Why?—Distinction carefully to be drawn between what is of Puritanical and what is of English origin.</p>
  </section>
  <p class="no-indent"><span class="small-caps">The</span> reader is cautioned not to draw too general or too absolute an inference from what has been said. The social condition, the religion, and the manners of the first emigrants undoubtedly exercised an immense influence on the destiny of their new country. Nevertheless they were not in a situation to found a state of things solely dependent on themselves: no man can entirely shake off the influence of the past, and the settlers, intentionally or involuntarily, mingled habits and notions derived from their education and from the traditions of their country with those habits and notions which were exclusively their own. To form a judgment on the Anglo-Americans of the present day it is therefore necessary to distinguish what is of Puritanical and what is of English origin.</p>
  <p>Laws and customs are frequently to be met with in the United States which contrast strongly with all that surrounds them. These laws seem to be drawn up in a spirit contrary to the prevailing tenor of the American legislation; and these customs are no less opposed to the tone of society. If the English colonies had been founded in an age of darkness, or if their origin was already lost in the lapse of years, the problem would be insoluble.</p>
  <p>I shall quote a single example to illustrate what I advance.</p>
  <p>The civil and criminal procedure of the Americans has only two means of action—committal and bail. The first measure taken by the magistrate is to exact security from the defendant, or, in case of refusal, to incarcerate him: the ground of the accusation and the importance of the charges against him are then discussed. It is evident that a legislation of this kind is hostile to the poor man, and favorable only to the rich. The poor man has not always a security to produce, even in a civil cause; and if he is obliged to wait for justice in prison, he is speedily reduced to distress. The wealthy individual, on the contrary, always escapes imprisonment in civil causes; nay, more, he may readily elude the punishment which awaits him for a delinquency by breaking his bail. So that all the penalties of the law are, for him, reducible to <a role="doc-noteref" href="#note-41" id="ref-41">fines</a>. Nothing can be more aristocratic than this system of legislation. Yet in America it is the poor who make the law, and they usually reserve the greatest social advantages to themselves. The explanation of the phenomenon is to be found in England; the laws of which I speak are <a role="doc-noteref" href="#note-42" id="ref-42">English</a>, and the Americans have retained them, however repugnant they may be to the tenor of their legislation and the mass of their ideas. Next to its habits, the thing which a nation is least apt to change is its civil legislation. Civil laws are only familiarly known to legal men, whose direct interest it is to maintain them as they are, whether good or bad, simply because they themselves are conversant with them. The body of the nation is scarcely acquainted with them; it merely perceives their action in particular cases; but it has some difficulty in seizing their tendency, and obeys them without premeditation. I have quoted one instance where it would have been easy to adduce a great number of others. The surface of American society is, if I may use the expression, covered with a layer of democracy, from beneath which the old aristocratic colors sometimes peep.</p>
</section>

<section class="endnotes" role="doc-endnotes"> 
    <h2 id="toc_3">Notes</h2>
     <ol>
      <li id="note-1" role="doc-endnote">The charter granted by the Crown of England in 1609 stipulated, amongst other conditions, that the adventurers should pay to the Crown a fifth of the produce of all gold and silver mines. See Marshall’s ‘Life of Washington,’ vol. i. pp. 18-66.     <a href="#ref-1" title="Link to the reference in the text.">Back</a></li>
      <li id="note-2" role="doc-endnote">A large portion of the adventurers, says Stith (History of Virginia,) were unprincipled young men of family, whom their parents were glad to ship off, discharged servants, fraudulent bankrupts, or debauchees; and others of the same class, people more apt to pillage and destroy than to assist the settlement, were the seditious chiefs, who easily led this band into every kind of extravagance and excess. See for the history of Virginia the following works:—<br/>
      ‘History of Virginia, from the First Settlements in the year 1624,’ by Smith.<br/>
      ‘History of Virginia,’ by William Stith.<br/>
      ‘History of Virginia, from the Earliest Period,’ by Beverley.]Darby’s ‘View of the United States.’     <a href="#ref-2" title="Link to the reference in the text.">Back</a></li>
      <li id="note-3" role="doc-endnote">It was not till some time later that a certain number of rich English capitalists came to fix themselves in the colony.     <a href="#ref-3" title="Link to the reference in the text.">Back</a></li>
      <li id="note-4" role="doc-endnote">Slavery was introduced about the year 1620 by a Dutch vessel which landed twenty negroes on the banks of the river James. See Chalmer.     <a href="#ref-4" title="Link to the reference in the text.">Back</a></li>
      <li id="note-5" role="doc-endnote">The States of New England are those situated to the east of the Hudson; they are now six in number: 1. Connecticut; 2. Rhode Island; 3. Massachusetts; 4. Vermont; 5. New Hampshire; 6. Maine.     <a href="#ref-5" title="Link to the reference in the text.">Back</a></li>
      <li id="note-6" role="doc-endnote">‘New England’s Memorial,’ p. 13; Boston, 1826. See also ‘Hutchinson’s History,’ vol. ii. p. 440.     <a href="#ref-6" title="Link to the reference in the text.">Back</a></li>
      <li id="note-7" role="doc-endnote">The emigrants were, for the most part, godly Christians from the North of England, who had quitted their native country because they were “studious of reformation, and entered into covenant to walk with one another according to the primitive pattern of the Word of God.” They emigrated to Holland, and settled in the city of Leyden in 1610, where they abode, being lovingly respected by the Dutch, for many years: they left it in 1620 for several reasons, the last of which was, that their posterity would in a few generations become Dutch, and so lose their interest in the English nation; they being desirous rather to enlarge His Majesty’s dominions, and to live under their natural prince.—<em>Translator’s Note</em>.     <a href="#ref-7" title="Link to the reference in the text.">Back</a></li>
      <li id="note-8" role="doc-endnote">This rock is become an object of veneration in the United States. I have seen bits of it carefully preserved in several towns of the Union. Does not this sufficiently show how entirely all human power and greatness is in the soul of man? Here is a stone which the feet of a few outcasts pressed for an instant, and this stone becomes famous; it is treasured by a great nation, its very dust is shared as a relic: and what is become of the gateways of a thousand palaces?     <a href="#ref-8" title="Link to the reference in the text.">Back</a></li>
      <li id="note-9" role="doc-endnote">The emigrants who founded the State of Rhode Island in 1638, those who landed at New Haven in 1637, the first settlers in Connecticut in 1639, and the founders of Providence in 1640, began in like manner by drawing up a social contract, which was acceded to by all the interested parties. See ‘Pitkin’s History,’ pp. 42 and 47.     <a href="#ref-9" title="Link to the reference in the text.">Back</a></li>
      <li id="note-10" role="doc-endnote">This was the case in the State of New York.     <a href="#ref-10" title="Link to the reference in the text.">Back</a></li>
      <li id="note-11" role="doc-endnote">Maryland, the Carolinas, Pennsylvania, and New Jersey were in this situation. See ‘Pitkin’s History,’ vol. i. pp. 11-31.     <a href="#ref-11" title="Link to the reference in the text.">Back</a></li>
      <li id="note-12" role="doc-endnote"><p class="no-indent">See the work entitled ‘Historical Collection of State Papers and other authentic Documents intended as materials for a History of the United States of America, by Ebenezer Hasard. Philadelphia, 1792,’ for a great number of documents relating to the commencement of the colonies, which are valuable from their contents and their authenticity: amongst them are the various charters granted by the King of England, and the first acts of the local governments.</p>
        <p class="no-indent">See also the analysis of all these charters given by Mr. Story, Judge of the Supreme Court of the United States, in the Introduction to his ‘Commentary on the Constitution of the United States.’ It results from these documents that the principles of representative government and the external forms of political liberty were introduced into all the colonies at their origin. These principles were more fully acted upon in the North than in the South, but they existed everywhere.     <a href="#ref-12" title="Link to the reference in the text.">Back</a></p></li>
      <li id="note-13" role="doc-endnote">See ‘Pitkin’s History,’ p, 35. See the ‘History of the Colony of Massachusetts Bay,’ by Hutchinson, vol. i. p. 9.     <a href="#ref-13" title="Link to the reference in the text.">Back</a></li>
      <li id="note-14" role="doc-endnote">See ‘Pitkin’s History," pp. 42, 47.     <a href="#ref-14" title="Link to the reference in the text.">Back</a></li>
      <li id="note-15" role="doc-endnote">The inhabitants of Massachusetts had deviated from the forms which are preserved in the criminal and civil procedure of England; in 1650 the decrees of justice were not yet headed by the royal style. See Hutchinson, vol. i. p. 452.     <a href="#ref-15" title="Link to the reference in the text.">Back</a></li>
      <li id="note-16" role="doc-endnote">Code of 1650, p. 28; Hartford, 1830.     <a href="#ref-16" title="Link to the reference in the text.">Back</a></li>
      <li id="note-17" role="doc-endnote">See also in ‘Hutchinson’s History,’ vol. i. pp. 435, 456, the analysis of the penal code adopted in 1648 by the Colony of Massachusetts: this code is drawn up on the same principles as that of Connecticut.     <a href="#ref-17" title="Link to the reference in the text.">Back</a></li>
      <li id="note-18" role="doc-endnote">Adultery was also punished with death by the law of Massachusetts: and Hutchinson, vol. i. p. 441, says that several persons actually suffered for this crime. He quotes a curious anecdote on this subject, which occurred in the year 1663. A married woman had had criminal intercourse with a young man; her husband died, and she married the lover. Several years had elapsed, when the public began to suspect the previous intercourse of this couple: they were thrown into prison, put upon trial, and very narrowly escaped capital punishment.     <a href="#ref-18" title="Link to the reference in the text.">Back</a></li>
      <li id="note-19" role="doc-endnote"> Code of 1650, p. 48. It seems sometimes to have happened that the judges superadded these punishments to each other, as is seen in a sentence pronounced in 1643, (p. 114, New Haven Antiquities,) by which Margaret Bedford, convicted of loose conduct, was condemned to be whipt, and afterwards to marry Nicholas Jemmings her accomplice.     <a href="#ref-19" title="Link to the reference in the text.">Back</a></li>
      <li id="note-20" role="doc-endnote">New Haven Antiquities, p. 104. See also Hutchinson’s History, for several causes equally extraordinary.     <a href="#ref-20" title="Link to the reference in the text.">Back</a></li>
      <li id="note-21" role="doc-endnote">Code of 1650, pp. 50, 57.     <a href="#ref-21" title="Link to the reference in the text.">Back</a></li>
      <li id="note-22" role="doc-endnote">Ibid., p. 64.     <a href="#ref-22" title="Link to the reference in the text.">Back</a></li>
      <li id="note-23" role="doc-endnote">Ibid., p. 44.     <a href="#ref-23" title="Link to the reference in the text.">Back</a></li>
      <li id="note-24" role="doc-endnote">This was not peculiar to Connecticut. See, for instance, the law which, on September 13, 1644, banished the Anabaptists from the State of Massachusetts. (Historical Collection of State Papers, vol. i. p. 538.) See also the law against the Quakers, passed on October 14, 1656: “Whereas,” says the preamble, “an accursed race of heretics called Quakers has sprung up,” &amp;tc. The clauses of the statute inflict a heavy fine on all captains of ships who should import Quakers into the country. The Quakers who may be found there shall be whipped and imprisoned with hard labor. Those members of the sect who should defend their opinions shall be first fined, then imprisoned, and finally driven out of the province.—Historical Collection of State Papers, vol. i. p. 630.     <a href="#ref-24" title="Link to the reference in the text.">Back</a></li>
      <li id="note-25" role="doc-endnote">By the penal law of Massachusetts, any Catholic priest who should set foot in the colony after having been once driven out of it was liable to capital punishment.     <a href="#ref-25" title="Link to the reference in the text.">Back</a></li>
      <li id="note-26" role="doc-endnote">Code of 1650, p. 96.     <a href="#ref-26" title="Link to the reference in the text.">Back</a></li>
      <li id="note-27" role="doc-endnote">New England’s Memorial, p. 316. See Appendix, E.     <a href="#ref-27" title="Link to the reference in the text.">Back</a></li>
      <li id="note-28" role="doc-endnote">Constitution of 1638, p. 17.     <a href="#ref-28" title="Link to the reference in the text.">Back</a></li>
      <li id="note-29" role="doc-endnote">In 1641 the General Assembly of Rhode Island unanimously declared that the government of the State was a democracy, and that the power was vested in the body of free citizens, who alone had the right to make the laws and to watch their execution.—Code of 1650, p. 70.     <a href="#ref-29" title="Link to the reference in the text.">Back</a></li>
      <li id="note-30" role="doc-endnote">Pitkin’s History, p. 47.     <a href="#ref-30" title="Link to the reference in the text.">Back</a></li>
      <li id="note-31" role="doc-endnote">Constitution of 1638, p. 12.     <a href="#ref-31" title="Link to the reference in the text.">Back</a></li>
      <li id="note-32" role="doc-endnote">Code of 1650, p. 80.     <a href="#ref-32" title="Link to the reference in the text.">Back</a></li>
      <li id="note-33" role="doc-endnote"><em>Ibid</em>., p. 78.     <a href="#ref-33" title="Link to the reference in the text.">Back</a></li>
      <li id="note-34" role="doc-endnote"><em>Ibid</em>., p. 49.     <a href="#ref-34" title="Link to the reference in the text.">Back</a></li>
      <li id="note-35" role="doc-endnote">See Hutchinson’s History, vol. i. p. 455.     <a href="#ref-35" title="Link to the reference in the text.">Back</a></li>
      <li id="note-36" role="doc-endnote">Code of 1650, p. 86.     <a href="#ref-36" title="Link to the reference in the text.">Back</a></li>
      <li id="note-37" role="doc-endnote"><em>Ibid</em>., p. 40.     <a href="#ref-37" title="Link to the reference in the text.">Back</a></li>
      <li id="note-38" role="doc-endnote">Ibid., p. 90.     <a href="#ref-38" title="Link to the reference in the text.">Back</a></li>
      <li id="note-39" role="doc-endnote">Mather’s Magnalia Christi Americana, vol. ii. p. 13. This speech was made by Winthrop; he was accused of having committed arbitrary actions during his magistracy, but after having made the speech of which the above is a fragment, he was acquitted by acclamation, and from that time forwards he was always re-elected governor of the State. See Marshal, vol. i. p. 166.     <a href="#ref-38" title="Link to the reference in the text.">Back</a></li>
      <li id="note-40" role="doc-endnote">See Appendix, F.     <a href="#ref-40" title="Link to the reference in the text.">Back</a></li>
      <li id="note-41" role="doc-endnote">Crimes no doubt exist for which bail is inadmissible, but they are few in number.       <a href="#ref-41" title="Link to the reference in the text.">Back</a></li>
      <li id="note-42" role="doc-endnote">See Blackstone; and Delolme, book I chap. x.       <a href="#ref-42" title="Link to the reference in the text.">Back</a></li>
      </ol>
    </section>
  
</body></html>